

Q No.1 What is !important

Ans.The !important rule in CSS is used to add more importance to a property/value than normal.



Q No.2 What is box model

Ans.The CSS box model is essentially a box that wraps around every HTML element.
 It consists of: margins, borders, padding, and the actual content. The image below illustrates the box model


 Q No.3 What is the difference between position absolute, relative and fixed?

Ans.relative - The element's position is adjusted relative to itself, without changing layout 
(and thus leaving a gap for the element where it would have been had it not been positioned).

absolute - The element is removed from the flow of the page and positioned at a specified
 position relative to its closest positioned ancestor if any, or otherwise relative to the
  initial containing block. Absolutely positioned boxes can have margins, and they do not 
  collapse with any other margins. These elements do not affect the position of other elements.

fixed - The element is removed from the flow of the page and positioned at a specified position
 relative to the viewport and doesn't move when scrolled.


Q No.4 What is CSS positioning?

Ans. CSS position property defines the position of an element in a document. This property works with the left, right, top,
 bottom and z-index properties to determine the final position of an element on a page.

 Q No.5 the difference between display none and display hidden

 Ans display:none means that the tag in question will not appear on the page at all
     display:hidden means that unlike display:none , the tag is not visible, but space is allocated for it on the page

 Q No.6 Difference between flex and grid? Where to use it?  
 Ans CSS Grid Layout is a two-dimensional system, meaning it can handle both columns and rows, 
 unlike flexbox which is largely a one-dimensional system (either in a column or a row).

 Q No.7 What is the z-index? What is the stacking context?

 Ans A stacking context is a group of elements that have a common parent and move up and down the z axis together

 Q No.8 Explain briefly what happens when you hit a url? explain DNS lookup
 After you’ve typed the URL into your browser and pressed enter, the browser needs to figure out which server 
 on the Internet to connect to. To do that, it needs to look up the IP address of the server hosting the website
  using the domain you typed in.

   Because DNS is complex and has to be blazingly fast, DNS data is cached at different
   layers between your browser and at various places across the Internet. Your browser checks its own cache, 
   the operating system cache, a local network cache at your router, and a DNS server cache on your corporate 
   network or at your internet service provider (ISP). If the browser cannot find the IP address at any
   of those cache layers, the DNS server on your corporate network or at your ISP does a recursive DNS lookup.

   Q No.9 What is HTTP protocol?

   Ans HTTP is a protocol for fetching resources such as HTML documents. It is the foundation of any data 
   exchange on the Web and it is a client-server protocol,which means requests are initiated by the recipient, usually the Web browser.


   QNo.10 What is TCP Protocol?

   Ans TCP stands for Transmission Control Protocol a communications standard that enables application programs
    and computing devices to exchange messages over a network.It is designed to send packets across the internet and ensure
     the successful delivery of data and messages over networks.

   Q No.11 What are HTTP headers?

   Ans.An HTTP header is a field of an HTTP request or response that passes additional context and metadata about the request or response

   Q No.12 What is polling?

   Ans. polling is a technique by which  a client cant ask the server for new or fresh data by priodically making API request to a server.

   Q No.13 what is long polling?

   Ans.HTTP Long Polling is a technique used to push information to a client as soon as possible on the server.
    As a result, the server does not have to wait for the client to send a request. 
   In Long Polling, the server does not close the connection once it receives a request from the client.

   Q No.14 What are web sockets

   Ans The WebSocket API is an advanced technology that makes it possible to open a two-way interactive communication
    session between the user's browser and a server

    Q No.15 What is Cross Origin Resource Sharing? ( CORS ) Why do we need it?
    Ans.Cross-Origin Resource Sharing (CORS) is an HTTP-header based mechanism that allows a server to indicate
     any origins (domain, scheme, or port) other than its own from which a browser should permit loading resources.

     Q No.16 What do CDN or Content Delivery Networks do? When do you need a CDN?
     CDNs cache content like web pages, images, and video in proxy servers near to your physical location.
      This allows you to do things like watch a movie, download software, check your bank balance, post on social media,
      or make purchases, without having to wait for content to load. You could think of a CDN like an ATM.

      Q No.17 What is the difference between Client Side Renderring and Server Side Renderring?
      Ans.in client side Renderring the html is generated on the client side by executing js codein the browser and js engine.
           in server side Renderring the html is generated by executing code on the server-side.


      



